Prerequisites

.NET SDK: You’ll need the .NET 5.0 SDK. You can download it from the official .NET download page.
Node.js: This includes npm, which you’ll need for the React app. You can download it from the official Node.js download page.
Step 1: Create the Project First, open your terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to create your project. Then run these commands:

dotnet new react -o reactnet-tutorial
cd reactnet-tutorial

This will create a new .NET project with a React front end in a folder called reactnet-tutorial, and then navigate into that folder.

Step 2: Install Dependencies Next, navigate into the ClientApp folder, which is where the React app is located. Then install the npm dependencies:

cd ClientApp
npm install

Step 3: Navigate Back to Root Directory After the installation is complete, navigate back to the root directory of your project:

cd ..

Step 4: Run the Application Now you’re ready to run your application. Use this command:

dotnet run

This will start both the .NET server and the React development server. You can now open your web browser and navigate to https://localhost:5001 to see your application.

Step 5: Develop Your Application Open your project in Visual Studio Code. You’ll see a ClientApp folder (this is your React app) along with various .NET configuration files. The entry point for the React application is ClientApp/src/index.js. The main layout for the website is in ClientApp/src/components/Layout.js, and the home page is in ClientApp/src/components/Home.js. You can start developing your application now. Any changes you make to the React application will be live reloaded in your browser, thanks to Create React App.

Step 6: Build for Production When you’re ready to build a production-ready version of your application, you can run:

dotnet publish -c Release

This command will create a production build of your React app and place it in the build folder within ClientApp. It will also compile your .NET code and place it alongside your static files.

That’s it! You’ve just created a .NET app with a React front end using Visual Studio Code, developed it, and prepared it for production. Happy coding! 🚀